Alright, now we're going to tackle the search
on the website, and I actually kinda like this one because
we're gonna be using a package that's called Downshift.
And it's released by PayPal.
And it uses the whole Render Prop mentality
to allow us to have all of the functionality of
sort of a search like this with a drop down,
so if I were to search for N, then it would show me
all of the items that are inside of it
and I can use my arrow keys to go up and down,
I can click on them, I can hit enter
on one of them and then route to it.
So all of that functionality is part of Downshift,
but none of the interface is part of Downshift.
And I think that's the real power of using a Render Prop
when you want to code a whole bunch of React components
that are just functionality, and it's not tied at all
to what it looks like.
That's exactly what we're gonna be using now with Downshift.
We've got kind of a lot to do here, because we have to
write a query that's going to do sort of a search
against the database, and we need to write
a component that's going to render out those results.
And then we're also gonna run into a bit of a
interesting situation where we need to query
not on page load, everything so far
has been a query on page load.
But when this loads, this search box,
we don't want it to search for anything
until I start to type something in here,
and then I'll be able to go off and search
for different things that I want to see.
So we're gonna figure out how do we actually get
queries to run on demand, not queries to run
on page load, which is what we're used to.
So let's go on in here.
We're gonna make a new component,
and it's going to be called Search.js.
And we're gonna do a regular import React from 'react'.
We're going to import Downshift from the Downshift package.
Import our router from next/router,
and that's gonna allow us to change the page.
We've used that before.
Import, and this is where we've never done this
with React Apollo, it's called an Apollo Consumer
from React Apollo.
And that's going to allow us to run these queries on demand
and not on page load with a regular query or a mutation.
Import GQL from GraphQL tag.
Import Debounce from lodash.debounce.
I'll explain why we need that a little bit later on.
And then finally we need a bunch of styles
from our DropDown styles.
So if you look in here, we've got a regular DropDown,
we have our DropDown Items, we have a glow key frame,
and then we have some regular search styles.
So I've exported those all as named exports.
So we can actually use, just take this
and import them all from the styles DropDown file.
Alright, so those are all of our imports.
We're going to go through each of one of those
over the next couple videos.
Then, what we want to do is make
an Autocomplete component here.
So we'll say class AutoComplete
extends React.component.
Inside of that, we need a render.
Inside of that, let's grab our SearchStyles.
Inside of that we need a div.
Then we need an input with the type of search.
And we need a DropDown Styles that we imported from here.
And then inside of there, just put a paragraph tag
that says items will go here.
It's kind of our layout that we have.
Then I'll say export default AutoComplete.
Looking pretty good so far.
Oh, this should be return.
Let me just pop a return in front of it.
Then let's go up to our Header.js, import our search,
and then swap out the paragraph that says search
with the actual Search.
Looks good.
Let's head back to our actual application and test it out.
Good, so that's a general layout of the search box
as well as the display.
Let's move into the actual query that we're gonna write
that's going to go off and search our items.
If you flip back to your server side
and look at your Schema.GraphQL,
you'll notice that we have this items query
which we've used before to grab all of our items.
However, we've also passed this where ItemWhereInput.
And that's what's going to allow us to actually search
based on the name of the item and the name,
the description of the item.
So let's flip back to our front end here
and go ahead and code up that query.
Say const Search Items Query is equal to gql.
Inside of that we'll have a query called Search Items Query
that takes in a search term, and that is going to be
a string that is required.
Then we are going to run our Items.
Remember that's this one right here, items.
And we can pass a Where input.
So we go for the items, we want to say where.
Now this is going to be, normally we would say
something like the title is equal to something,
but we can't say it's exactly title.
So we use another property called title contains.
And that is going to contain the search term.
But then we also want to check the description.
So we'll say description contains the search term.
So that will check where, it'll look for items
where the title contains the search term
and the description contains the search term.
But that's, that's not great because
if we're searching for AirMax,
that might only be in the title and not the description.
So what we can do here is instead of passing this directly,
we can set a property called OR, which is an array.
And then you can give it a bunch of objects.
So the first one would be an object with title contains.
And the second one would be an object
with description contains.
And that will say find me items where
one of these is true, the title contains the search term
or the description contains the search term.
And that will search both of those fields for us.
All of these are provided by prisma by default.
Again, if you want to see it you go to your generated
prisma.graphql file and you search for
the item where, what is it called?
Item where input, so just search for input, item where input
and you can see that the item where input will take
an array of or's of itself, actually,
so you can nest them as deeply as you want.
And then if we scroll down here,
we can search for specific id's
where an id is not equal to something,
id is in an array of id's, id is greater than, less than,
id not contains, id contains.
And then these are the ones that we're looking for,
is the title contains, and then for every single field
that is on our item, we'll get the whole in, not in,
contains, does not contain, greater than,
less than, you get the point, right?
That's the beauty of Prisma is that it gives us
that whole query for ourselves.
Then returned from each of those,
we just need the id of the item,
the image of the item, and then the title of the item
'cause those are the only three pieces
that we are interested in to display to the user.
Even though we're searching the description,
we're not gonna display the description
in the dropdown that we have.
Next if we go down to this input here,
this is where the input, when somebody types
into this input, we need to fire off an on change event,
and then that needs to go to our database
and run this query.
The problem is that the only way that we know
how to expose a query to an input right now
is if we were to take the query component
and wrap it in an input.
But what that would do is it would trigger the query
on page load, and then every single time
someone loads a page, you'd have this unnecessary query
that's firing off, not to mention how do you
refire it when someone has changed the value in it?
So this is where we actually need direct access
to our Apollo Client, because on our Apollo Client
we can manually fire off these queries
rather than using a Render Prop.
So that's exactly why we imported this Apollo Consumer.
And what the Apollo Consumer will do
is it will expose the client to us
so that we can manually run these queries ourselves.
So we're gonna go right above this input
and grab our Apollo Consumer and wrap
the input that we have.
Then inside of the Apollo Consumer,
we're going to have a Render Prop.
And the thing that it will give us is the Apollo Client.
And then inside of this input we can return it.
Then we can wire up an on change event to that,
and we can simply just right here, let's just run
a little inline function for the time being
that says console.log the client.
I just want to see that we've got everything working here.
A little bit of an error, element type is invalid.
Did we import the Apollo Consumer properly?
Oh, I imported it from React Adopt.
Obviously not React Adopt, it's React Apollo.
There we go.
Let's open our dev tools here.
And then whenever I type into here,
we're getting access to the Apollo Client.
And inside of that you can see we have the cache,
which holds all of our data.
This is, look at, here's all of the items
and this is all of the data that lives in our Apollo Client.
All the config, all the optimistic stuff
that we talked about earlier,
all of the things that's being watched.
But what we're concerned about is this query.
See this is a query function and this is a mutate function.
This is going to allow us to manually call mutations
and queries rather than us having to use a Render Prop.
And that is exactly what we want to do.
So let's go back to this on change here.
And we'll swap that out with an event,
and that event needs to call e.persist.
And then next we're going to call this.onchange.
We're gonna pass the event that we have
as well as we're gonna pass the client.
And what that will do is this Apollo Consumer
exposes the client to us, and then when somebody types,
we're gonna pass the client to a separate function.
And that allows us to go above the render
and make an onchange handler here
that accepts that event and the client.
And we can go in here and say I'm inside
the onchange handler, and console log the client.
Make sure we still have it.
So go and type into here.
You see every single time that I make a change,
we're going to see the default client.
Now that we have this onchange handler,
let's get rid of these console logs here.
Let's actually fire off a query for ourselves.
So we can say const the response
is equal to await client.query.
The query that we want to fire off
is going to be called search items query.
So query, it's called search items query.
And then the variables that we're gonna pass
is the search term, and that is going to be equal to
whatever was inside of the input, so e.target.value.
Now this is not an async function,
so we can change it to an async function.
And then right here we can console log the response
that comes back from that query.
So I'm gonna type in an A here,
and we get an error message.
Or field is not defined by item where unique input.
Did we goof something up?
Oh, here we did.
We searched for item, not items.
So make sure you put an S on that.
Give it a refresh.
I'm gonna type in A, and then just a split second later
you see the response here.
Inside of the data you have your items,
and those are all of the items
that have matched my actual search.
So when somebody comes in here and triggers a change
on the input, then we trigger this,
and we manually, maybe we should put a comma there,
manually query Apollo Client.
And then we have this response.
So the next question is like what do we do
with this list of items?
Well, we're going to put them into state
so that we in turn can actually loop through them
inside of our dropdown and display them to the users.
So we'll go up here and we'll set our initial state.
Our initial state is going to be items,
which is an empty array.
And then we're also going to have the handler own,
whether it's loading, true or false.
Because we don't have the convenience
of our query or our mutation components,
we have to take care of the loading state ourselves.
So we'll say loading is false.
Then we'll go back into our onchange handler.
The first thing we need to do is turn that loading on.
So I'll say turn loading on.
So this.setState loading is true.
And then down here when we actually get the response,
we gotta put those items into state.
So we'll say this.setState.
Items is going to be equal to the response.data.items.
And then the loading is going to be set to false.
We'll show you where to set that loading in just a sec.
So we should now be able to go into our React dev tools,
look for our AutoComplete.
Let me give it a good refresh.
I don't see my empty state in there.
Let me check again, AutoComplete, there we go.
My state has zero items in it, but if I were to type
an A in here, you see that it temporarily
put loading to true, but then when it came back,
we now have our four items.
So that's working really well.
One little problem that we have is if you're to type in this
really quickly, like you were searching for a coat,
that would fire off one two three four requests
one after another, and that's not a really good thing.
You could probably dedauth your own website.
So that's exactly why we've taken
this debounce function in from lodash.
And what debounce will do is it will
take all of those events that are fired within
maybe 350 milliseconds and then only after 350 milliseconds
has finished it will actually fire that.
So it will make sure that we're not unnecessarily
firing off on every key up.
And that's pretty easy to do that.
You simply just take your onchange
and you wrap it in a debounce.
And then it'll go down here.
And then the second argument is how much
do you want to debounce it?
We'll say 350 milliseconds.
And let's just console.log searching inside of here
just so we know, see how often that's actually running.
So go to our console here, clear it out.
Now if I were to type in coat,
you'll see that it only fires once there.
If I were to keep typing I love coats,
you see that it only fires once or twice
depending on how quickly I can type it.
That's really gonna save our back end
with just a little bit of debounce.
Super handy just to be able to wrap a function
and then it will only run once every 350 milliseconds.
Next one we want to do is start to
display some of our items.
So let's go down to this dropdown here.
And we simply will take this.state.items.
And we'll map over it, and we'll take each item
and return a dropdown item.
Inside of that, we want an image tag,
we'll put a width of 50 on it.
Source is going to be the item.image.
The alt is going to be the item.title.
Below that, we'll just pop in the item.title.
And if I give it a refresh here,
and see, there's nothing there.
If I were to type A, then those items come back
and start showing up.
We're getting a bit of an error because we didn't do
a key on it, so we'll go to this dropdown item
and say key is equal to the item.id.
And that stops that from happening.
So that is, actually has nothing to do
with downshift just yet.
That's just a fairly simple being able to query
against our API, pull back the data,
set it into state, and then loop over and display it.
Where Downshift starts to come in is
if we want to click on these or if we want to use
our arrow keys to go up and down.
And it might seem like a kind of simple kind of thing,
where maybe we could just wrap each of these
in an anchor tag and call it a day,
but there's a lot of finesse when you're doing
an AutoComplete dropdown like this,
where you want it to be accessible,
which is a feat of its own.
It's very hard to make these things accessible.
And then you also want all of the little arrow keys to work
and when somebody focuses away from that,
you want it to hide itself.
And when you hit the escape key,
And there's really a lot to it.
And that's exactly why we're going to
be using this Downshift library.
And in the next video we'll jump into that.